---
layout: post
tag: personal
title: It's Funny How We Forget We Forget
---

I haven't posted anything in a long time on here and I actually forgot how to go about doing it.  Memory is such a fickle thing if it isn't attached to something concrete.

Since my last post, I've installed Linux as a tester OS after hearing so much about it throughout the years.  As a development OS, it is basically night and day compared to Windows.  I wrote about how learning Ruby on Rails in Windows was nightmare for me and caused me to quit before I really got started.  Just getting MYSQL to install properly basically never worked for me on Windows.  It would appear to work, but as I got further down the tutorial from Michael Hartl, something broke.  After spending hours troubleshooting and failing, I gave up.  It was just way too annoying.

Linux is amazing.  If I want some software, I open up terminal and type perhaps two or three commands and voila, it's now installed on my machine.  Updating is a breeze, removing is a breeze.  All of my energy can now be focused on learning and creating instead of figuring out why x didn't turn into y in spite of following all directions to a T.

Anyway, enough of the ranting.  I'm back into learning mode after burning out pretty heavily and I just realized I forgot basically everything.  Things are coming back quicker because I did learn it before but I still have to relearn things -- even this damn blog took me a while to figure out how to deploy onto GitHub.

Anyway, let's dive into it!