---
layout: post
tag: personal
title: Forever and Ever, Wiggypop
---

I had to put my dog of 12 years down today.  He was around for almost half of my life so it was an extremely difficult decision.  I remember when my older sister came into my room while I was sleeping and dropped the little pup on my chest for the first time.  He was the size of my hand and I fell in love.  He was loving, picky about food, sweet, needy, and full of sense.  Every dog has their own personality and I believe he was the incarnation of my entire family's characteristics.  He had love from all sources and I'm comforted by the fact he had more people by his side on his last day than a lot of humans do -- he was an amazing dog.

He had a very close call three months ago when his kidneys and liver started failing.  It was very sudden and nobody was ready to say goodbye.  I begged whatever entity was out there that if they gave me a few more months with him, that would be all I need.  After three nights at the vet, I told my family to be ready to go put him down in the morning if he was not better.  The next day we headed to the hospital and were preparing ourselves to do what was needed.  To our absolute elation, the little guy came walking out of his care room wagging his tail excitedly as if he nothing ever happened.  My prayers were answered and it was an absolute miracle.

Three months later he eats something bad and goes into the exact same condition he had prior.  This time, he wouldn't make it through.  I'm absolutely devastated by his loss but I do remind myself of the peace he now has.  I love you Wiggum and if the major psychedelics have taught me anything, it's that we all eventually fall back as one into another dimension from where we came.  Forever and ever, Wiggypop -- Sept 5, 2016.